Hey everyone, I'm Chris Crow, campus pastor for Crossway Christian Church's Millford campus here in Southern New Hampshire, where our mission is all about practicing the way of Jesus together as we pursue God, build community, and unleash compassion.
I pray that what you hear today will help you experience God more deeply and live more and more like Jesus.
I'm honored to be able to share, I'm honored to be able to serve, and I thank God that He has allowed me this opportunity to worship together
I got to get away from one of the mics, huh?
Sorry, Luke.
I told John that I would go for an hour and 15 minutes.
I'm just kidding.
I probably have one of the shortest messages.
And one of the things that we're in Revelation 21 is the passage of Scripture that we'll be reviewing today.
And I know that
Chris had talked about bringing our Bibles.
I have an NIV.
I got to go buy an ESV now.
He transitioned my Bible.
And so I have paper text of the ESV, but I do have my NIV here.
And so, Father, as we dive into your word, it is the truth.
And so I pray that your word would bring revelation.
Father, as I speak, I pray that you would allow your Holy Spirit to stir our affections for you.
That you would remove any thoughtful plans or schemes of man in the text, but that your word would ring forth and that your truth would be behold.
I told you the last time that the Holy Spirit reveals Himself and, yeah, it makes me emotional.
So I'll try to suppress it.
But I don't ever want to and I want to apologize for it.
He reveals Himself in that way to me and it's rich and it's deep and it's meaningful and it's different for you because He meets you where you are, but that's how He meets me.
And so when I hear the truth of His word, it serves my affection.
How many of you would agree that where we gather together, he's in the midst.
So our text is from Revelation 21, three through eight.
And I'm gonna read this over you.
And I'm gonna take my time and I'm not gonna rush through it because I want you to capture the vision that John has here.
There's often metaphors or visuals
that John has in his vision, and he's trying to portray throughout all of history and creation what it is that we have a future hope of.
And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man.
He will dwell with them, and they will be his people.
And God himself will be with them as their God.
He will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
And death shall be no more.
Neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain anymore.
for the former things have passed away.
And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new.
Also, he said, write this down.
For these words are trustworthy and true.
And he said to me, it is done.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end.
To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment.
The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son.
But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral sorcerers, idolchers, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.
So John is painting for us a picture in Revelation, metaphors and correlations to Old Testament scriptures and the vision given to him of the kingdom to come.
We have this hope.
He speaks throughout the rest of this chapter of how the presence of God will permeate every part of the New Jerusalem.
my prayer is that he would permeate every part of this room, this space, your heart today.
A book that I took away a text from, it's called, Discipleship on the Edge by Darryl Johnson, and he says it like this.
He says, Revelation has two major purposes.
One is to set the present moment in light of the unseen realities
of the future.
This is a weighty quote, but I want you to kind of gain a little bit of a glimpse into what it is that we're trying to experience here in Revelation.
The other is to set the present moment in light of the unseen realities of the present.
Things are not as they seem.
There is more on the horizon than meets our unaided senses.
There is more going on right here.
then we can know with our unaided eyes and ears and hands and minds and emotions.
It is the practical pastoral purpose of revelation to open up that more for us.
It turns out that these two purposes are not unrelated.
It turns out that because of the nature of the unseen realities of the future and of the present, the unseen
realities of the future and the unseen realities of the present are not before the new creation arrives separate.
Turns out that to set the present in light of the unseen realities of the future is to set the present in light of the unseen realities of the present.
For the future is one of the unseen realities of the present.
So this future hope that we hold on to is what he's trying to say is something that we get to experience here and now.
And the past messages that we've been able to share from Chris and Dan and Jeremy have all centered around the fact that Christ comes to give us life.
Life abundantly.
That future hope that we get to look toward is not something that's down the road on the horizon.
It's something that we get to experience here and now.
A couple of weeks ago, I shared on 2 Peter,
And it says that the grace and peace be with you through the knowledge of our Lord and Jesus Christ.
That knowledge that it's talking about is an experiential knowledge.
It's an intimate experience that we get to have with Christ.
That's what we get to one look forward to.
Yes, because in that vision, he's trying to talk about the totality or the completion of the prophetic.
You following?
Are you with me?
That was a weighty quote, I know.
Jeremy had asked me, he goes, Luke, what do you have a title for your message?
So I don't have a title.
But if I did have to have a title today, I would say that the dwelling place of God is among men.
In Genesis chapter three, verse eight,
It says, and they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden.
So here they had this perfect unity with God and yet sin separated them from that.
So they had to hide themselves from the presence of God.
And so here we see
That played out the dwelling of God among men.
In Leviticus 26, and I'm not expecting you to flip through all these pages quickly, but I'll have the text overhead.
Leviticus 2611 says, I will make my dwelling among you.
This is at a time in Leviticus where they're trying to lay out the framework of the expectations and the law of God.
And so he's saying, if you observe my laws, then I can be with you.
Because at this time, right, Christ had not come manifest.
There's a piece to that that I'll reference again later.
There's an element of obedience that comes into play.
Ezekiel 37, 27, a prophecy to be fulfilled says, my dwelling place shall be with them.
And I will be their God and they shall be my people.
Paul reiterated in 2 Corinthians, chapter 6, verse 16.
What agreement has the temple of God with idols?
For we are the temple of the living God.
As God said, I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them and I will be their God and they shall be my people.
Ephesians chapter two, verse 21 through 22 says, in him who the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord.
In him you are also being built together into a dwelling place for God by the spirit.
Now we'll get to the good part.
And the good part is for me, when I look at the gospels and what Jesus, God incarnate says to us and to his disciples, he says, in Mark chapter 1 verse 15 through 17, he says, the time is fulfilled in the kingdom of God is at hand.
Repent and believe in the gospel.
And then he says later in 17, and Jesus said to them, follow me, and I will make you
fishers of men.
The kingdom of God, the kingdom word, is translated not as a kingdom in his way, we envision it, but it is the dominion, the reign, or the rule of God.
And that has been since creation, and that will be for all of eternity.
When I was talking earlier about being able to put a banner over our heads, I was talking with Elijah this morning,
We were praying and I said, man, how cool is it that we got to look at those meteors, those showers, those stars that were flying through the sky.
That's the God that we hit to proclaim that we are a part of his kingdom.
I don't have much to say beyond what the scriptures themselves say.
And so my mind goes to a very pragmatic way of processing through what Revelation 21 says.
And it's that
It has to be supported with the way that scriptures has outlined it for us from the beginning to the end.
If I add anything to it, I do an injustice and I put myself as Lord over the scriptures.
And so the scriptures laid out pretty plainly.
The kingdom of God is at hand.
That was then he was there with them.
And then he ascends after his death and resurrection and he sends who his Holy Spirit to be among us.
And so I know that I am part of the kingdom, the reign and rule of God.
And I get to be a part of that.
The reigner rule of God is present in our normal fishermen moments.
They were doing their job.
They were making a living.
And God just said, come follow me.
So there's an ask.
There's an invitation.
He's saying,
Will you come?
But if you don't send an RSVP to the individual who's sending you an invitation, you're going to get that text or that call.
Hey, are you coming?
He continues to come back to us.
Are you coming with me?
Maybe you're resistant.
Maybe the spirit inside of you is saying, I don't need what God has to offer me.
I can tell you that today he's asking you again.
And he's not going to give up asking you.
Several months ago, I had the honor of sharing it on this platform.
And I shared about the fact that we are his segula, his peripoasis, that word meeting prize possession.
We were in Second Peter.
We were talking about being a peculiar community.
And that word peculiar means that we are His prized possession.
In the Old Testament, it's Segula, and in the New Testament, it's peripoasis.
And the difference between the two is that in the Old Testament, it was prized possession.
This was His.
In the New Testament, it says peripoasis, and this is something acquired.
It was acquired through Christ.
We are His prized possession acquired through Christ.
The plan hasn't changed for all eternity.
He loves you.
He wants you.
as part of his kingdom.
The easiest decision that you will ever make in your life is to say, yes, I want what you have for me, Lord.
The hardest part about that is walking it out.
That will be the hardest decision you'll ever make in your life.
It's easy to say yes to the Lord.
Yes, I want to receive that.
I was listening to a teacher this past week.
He was on a social media blast and
He said, you can't treat Jesus or salvation like a buffet and you're walking down the line.
And I love the way he had this analogy.
He's like, I'll take salvation.
That seems good.
I got into heaven and a future and a hope, but I don't want conviction.
I don't want, I don't want to have to change these things in my life.
Jeremy, a couple of weeks ago, shared on Matthew 27, or Matthew 7, verse 21, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of the Father, who is in heaven.
And so again, my pragmatic mind goes to what is the will of the Father?
The will of the Father in John 6, 40 says this, that everyone who looks on the sun
and believes in Him should have eternal life.
And I will raise Him up on the last day.
But I go, there's another passage of Scripture that says that all that call upon the name of the Lord will be saved.
But then in verse 21 of chapter seven, it says, but not all who call him Lord will enter the kingdom of God.
So I'm going, man, I feel like I'm talking in circles, but the scripture doesn't talk in circles.
It says, it is God's will in first Thessalonians four, three, that you should be sanctified.
And that summed it up for me.
I was like, man, I feel like these verses that Jesus is sharing for us are this mystery, this cyclical mystery, but that's not in fact the case at all.
He said, is God's will that you should be sanctified?
What does that mean?
Made holy, set apart, consecrated.
And as John alluded to earlier, we can't do that on our own.
There is nothing that I can do.
There is nothing that you can do in works, in actions indeed, in mind, in spirit that we can do to earn his favor.
It is only through Christ.
In John, chapter 17, 15 through 19, Jesus prays for his disciples.
How many of you in this world face trouble?
Morning grief, sorrow, pain, suffering, tears.
We also get to experience the opposite of those joy, unspeakable and full of glory.
But Jesus here, he's praying for his disciples.
He says, I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one.
They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world, sanctify them in the truth.
Your word is the truth.
As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world.
And for their sake, I consecrate myself that they also may be sanctified
in truth.
So it is the only way that we are sanctified and set apart is through Christ through the truth of his word.
You'll all be familiar with this, I believe.
Jesus prayed a prayer, Matthew 6, 10, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
the coming kingdom, dominion, reign, or rule of God.
The Pharisees are asking Jesus in Luke 17, verse 20, when would it come?
The kingdom of God is not coming.
Jesus says in ways that you can be, that can be observed, nor will they say, look, here it is, or there, but for behold, the kingdom of God, it's in the midst of you.
So I wasn't going to take Revelation 21 and go, let's talk about pre-med or post-tribulation rapture.
No.
That's not the heartbeat of God.
And here he's telling the Pharisees, what are you looking for?
It's here.
I'm here.
Take hold of this.
There's an invitation here.
The kingdom of God is among you.
And they're missing it.
I don't want to miss it.
I don't want to miss the invitation.
The finality, the meaning, the completeness of the kingdom of God has expressed in Revelation 21 has yet to come, however, through Christ we have been given access to experience the sanctifying grace offered to us through His sacrifice.
We have been invited to experience the transforming power of the One God the Father sent to give us access to the throne room of heaven.
We get the privilege to enter the holy of holies because of the obedience of the Son of God to sacrifice Himself for us on the cross.
We then have a responsibility to respond to this invitation.
We get to invite Him in and walk out this life in accordance with the truth of the Father, His Word.
His Word outlines for us the lordship of Christ
on the throne.
Do we elevate Christ to Lord of our lives or is he the assurance of the alternative?
In other words, do I say yes to Jesus because I don't want to go to hell or do I truly make him Lord of my life and follow in obedience?
Jesus is either Lord of your life
or you are.
We will certainly struggle to fulfill this call, the struggle.
It's very evident in real daily.
It's a call to obedience.
Our flesh is weak.
Our failings innumerable.
But when, where do we turn when we fail?
Who is it that we turn to?
Do we continue to run away from him?
Or do we run to His mercy and grace that's so freely given?
If we claim authority over what the truth of the Father is, His word, then we stand proclaiming our own lordship.
And this is not what He's called us to.
We can only be sanctified by Him as we saw in John chapter 17.
This hope we profess of a future without death, tears, or mourning in Revelation 21 is only available to those who believe on the name of Jesus and do the will of the Father.
The two can't be separated.
I don't get to say Jesus come into my life and not do the will of the Father.
Sanctification is a real thing.
It's only through Christ, but I can't continue to be walking in disobedience.
There's one passage in Revelation that comes long before 21 as we close the book of Revelation here.
But Revelation chapter 5, 5 through 14.
I think without chapters 4 and 5 of Revelation, you can't truly understand the mysteries of Revelation.
and five paints a beautiful picture and centers it all on Christ.
So Revelation 5.5 says this.
And one of the elders said to me, weep no more.
Behold the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David has conquered so that he can open the scroll and it's seven seals.
And between the throne and the four living creatures and among the elders, I saw a lamb standing as though it had been slain with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth.
And he went and he took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne.
And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the 24 elders fell down before the lamb, each holding a harp and golden bowls of incense, which are prayers of the saints.
And they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals.
For you are slain and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation.
And you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God and they shall reign on the earth.
Then I looked and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders and the voice of many angels numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands saying with a loud voice worthy is the lamb who was slain to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing.
Then I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea and all that is in them saying to him who sits on the throne and to the lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might.
forever and ever.
And the four living creatures said, Amen.
And the elders fell down and worshiped.
Amen.
If it wasn't for sin, we wouldn't need His word.
We would just be worshiping.
We would just be worshiping God like the angels and all the saints.
It would just be us worshiping God all the time.
Yet the sin that we have in our lives and before us requires that we have an outline.
God's saying, here's what I'm expecting of you.
Here's what I need you to do.
Here's what I need you to walk in.
Here's how I need you to do it.
And like that buffet line, we go, I'll do that, but I won't do this.
And I'll do that, but I won't do this.
Or what if our moral compass and the way that we view things isn't the way that he sees it?
And so when he speaks to us through his scripture and it doesn't align with our view of it,
We go, I don't know if I subscribe to that.
That's not what he's calling us to.
So I'm constantly challenged when I open the pages of truth and it speaks to my heart and it convicts me and I go, I can't do this on my own.
So Holy Spirit help.
My prayer for our church is that we would cry out to the Holy Spirit help.
We need you.
I need you to come.
I need you to fill my life.
I want to experience Christ.
I want to walk it out with love and the fruit of the Spirit.
And so our barometer needs to be, am I walking out my life, my circumstances, my engagements, my interactions, my relationships in the power of the Spirit?
And the barometer for that is, do I demonstrate the fruit of the Spirit?
Was my action kind?
Was it gentle that I love?
Was I patient?
I can tell you, as a dad, sometimes I'm not.
But I want to be, I want to walk it out like Christ would.
I want my kids to see Christ in me.
I want my wife to see Christ in me.
I want the church, our body here, to see Christ in me, not so that I can boast.
But if I'm going to boast, I want to boast in Him.
It's Him working in and through me so that they
can see his glory.
I share these things with conviction and passion because I don't want you to miss the invitation.
I know what I've experienced in my life.
And there's been hard times and there's been beautiful times.
But in all of them, when he's
Made this invitation to me.
I've either said yes I want you to be a part of this invitation or I want to be a part of this party that you have Or no, I don't subscribe to that and I can tell you when I've said I don't subscribe to that It's not been great.
It's been pretty miserable And even in the even in the sorrow filled hard difficult times of life When I just didn't know how I was gonna come out of that valley or that pit
But I invited him into that circumstance and he said, I want to love you in this and I want you to know that you are my prized possession.
I can tell you that joy that's unspeakable and full of glory.
I've experienced that.
How?
The Holy Spirit came in and he did a work.
He transformed me.
I want that for all of you.
Whatever circumstance you bring to the table today, he wants to sit down.
Louis Giglio says, he wants to sit down at the table
that He has prepared for you.
He wants to commune with you, Louis Giglio says, I love that.
And that brings us back to Revelation 21.
The dwelling place of God is among us.
And it's not the distinction between that God is in you when you invite Christ into your life.
He certainly is.
But when two or three gather together, he is there in the midst of them.
He is their complimentary.
I want us to experience new revelation in Christ.
I want us to experience His character and His nature.
How do we do that?
We open up the books and the pages of truth.
We sing worship songs.
And as we sing before Him, as we bow our hearts before Him, He reveals Himself to us.
These songs that we sing, hymns, songs, spiritual songs,
are all points in people's lives over generations and generations of people realizing the revelation of Christ in their life.
So we're gonna sing a couple more choruses and I wanna celebrate.
I wanna celebrate with you and I wanna bring glory and honor to God.
And so before we sing these choruses, I want you to search your heart.
He has a future hope for us indeed, but he wants us to experience him here.
And now, and we get to walk out this rich, beautiful life with Him and journey with Him if we will respond to His invitation and say, yes.
So this morning, if you've never made that proclamation over your life, Jesus, I want you to come.
I know John shared it earlier.
Maybe you're resisting it.
I'm just going to share it again.
All you have to say is, Jesus, I want you to be Lord of my life.
I want you to come and I want you to fill
my life.
I want to put you over all things.
I'm not asking you to raise your hand.
This is between you and him.
Your baptism, I look forward to when you get to publicly profess that you made Jesus Lord of your life.
I look forward to celebrating with you on that day.
But if you do make that decision today, your life will never be the same.
Maybe there's those of us who say, yeah, I've called him Lord before, but like in Matthew, I don't do the will of the Father.
I'm not being sanctified.
I'm not walking in obedience.
What does that look like for you?
So surrender that to him today.
If that's speaking to your heart, say, Holy Spirit, I need you to come in and I need you to transform my life.
I haven't given this thing over to you yet.
And I know that I need to.
I don't want to be.
On that day where he returns and he says, depart from me, I never knew you.
And I don't want that for you.
So is it just a posture of worship and a heart of worship?
You can feel free to sit, feel free to stand or move about the space.
But I just, I want to give him praise and honor his name.
And it's a chorus that we've sang together before.
Jess, you can come back up and Sam, you can come back up.
We're gonna sing two choruses.
Jesus, we love you.
And then only you are holy.
Thanks for listening to the Crossway Christian Church's Millford campus sermon podcast.
If you'd like to plug into the life of our community or have any questions that we might be able to answer, visit our website at crosswaycc.org to connect with us.
Until next time, we can be with you.
May the Lord bless you and keep you.